551-497BCE
hermeneutics of suspicion focus on the author's intentions for making the claims. Faith examines the claims based on the justifications of the claims.
Analects
Happiness in the Everyday World, Revivalistic Traditionalism, The family and differentiated caring, Ritual and functionalism, Ethical cultivation
The highest confucian virtue in the analects. 
Dutifulness and sympathetic understanding.
Learning refers to a process of moral development involving the interalization of the classics and rituals
A key Confucian virtue that directs one toward the good of one’s parents.
Refers to both ritual activities and the virtue of ritual propriety, social activities both large and small that bind communities together.
(1) Express basic human emotions (e.g. funeral, wedding, birthday, mother’s day) (2) Bind family, friends, and community together (3) Provide a recognizable social context for expressing positive emotions toward others. (e.g. a greeting like bow or handshake)(4) Provide a narrative structure to human life: birthdays, graduations, awards, funerals
A kind of moral, charismatic power that allows an individual to act, think, and feel appropriately, and draws others to emulate their goodness.
Effortless Action or Nonaction. In the Analects, wu-wei marks out a state of harmony in which one’s life is integrated and one’s desires are in harmony with one’s actions. 
Confucius claims that people will correct themselves when lead by virtue.
The state will flourish if and only if the ruler is virtuous.
CL aims for the government to protect individual rights, where as PP aims to have a government provide a sustantive conception of the good life, this would include virtue knowledge etc.
The view that we ought to care more about those with whom we have great attachments, e.g. family, friends. We also have stronger obligations toward those people with whom we have intimate ties.
Consequentialism, (Kantian) Deontology,  Virtue Ethics
consequentialism
Wealth, populousness, and social order
teaches that we should promote the good of everyone equally without preference for our family, friends, country etc
Mohists believed that fatalism, the idea that our lives are determined by destiny or fate, lead to laziness or complacency since “if something is fated to occur then no matter how hard one tries to change this, what good will it do?”
Mohists were deeply critical of many Confucian rituals such as funeral rites or musical ceremonies
In the state of nature, everybody has different “norms” or accounts of morality. This resulted in great chaos and disorder. To rid this chaos, people chose the best person among the most worthy and capable and established him as the Son of Heaven. For each village, district, or state the most benevolent person will rule. The Son of Heaven provides a unified account of norms (yi) and what is right or wrong.
Hobbes believed people would turn to chaos due to a self interest in self preservation where as mozi believed they would turn to chaos due to different conceptions of norms
Mozi argues that if you had to leave your family to be cared by someone you would leave them with a impartial person.
Lived during 4th Century BCE
Compassion, Disdain, Deference, Approval or Disapproval
Benevolence, Righteousness, Propriety, Wisdom
Compassion => Benevolence, Disdain => Righteousness, Approval => Wisom
The main point of the child and the well example was to make an argument for the compassion sprout.
Psychological egoism claims that human action aims at one's own self-interest, ethical egoism claims that every action should be done for one's self interest.
The analogy shows us that people would save the baby even if they wouldn't remeber it therefore every action we take actually doesn't only help ourselves.
The ox mountain example explains that being born into a world where badness defines survival renders one to believe the world was always bad.
The first source, of natural familial affection, can be gradually extended and so that is already sufficient to cover our ethical responsibilities. Since the second source is against our nature, it’ll incline us toward disorder and confusion.
We become a petty human by becoming preoccupied by lesser goods (e.g. food, sex, fame, power) but become a great human by using our hearts (xin 心) to reflect on the importance of virtue.
Eudaimonia is about one’s life as a whole, and reflection on eudaimonia requires thinking about your life’s structure and point.
the source of all ethical inclination, as well as thought and emotion.
a kind of energy or aura we draw from our environment which we can also cultivate and put out into the world. Think about people who have a kind of “electricity”, or about the way we can draw “good vibes” from a beautiful day or a fragrant breeze.
It is the Book of Changes
Yin and Yang are competitive and complementary forces.  All things rely on both for their existence.
Attributed to the mythical figure, Laozi.
The view that there is a form of knowledge that cannot be fully expressed in words but carries significant value.
Isolate and Simplify To achieve social peace and harmony, we should aim for a primitive, agricultural life-style in small communities.
The field analogy describes what the Dao is. During the winter there is emptiness and tranquility. But when you come back in the Spring, you notice blooming flowers, grass, and various growths. Like the Dao the field lies in the background, unnoticed, but is really the source of life. The field “acts” through non-action (wu-wei), without seeking praise, in humility.
While beings are things with definite shape and form, Dao is elusive, shapeless, and “inactive.” (Perhaps “effortless”?) [Dao] is forever nameless… Only when it is cut are there names. As soon as there are names, one ought to know that it is time to stop. Since the Dao transcends all sense experience and human categories, it cannot fit into our conceptual scheme. Dao generates and sustains the world. Dao is empty and yet its function is inexhaustible.
the application of the Dao to human affairs. By possessing and actualizing de, one follows the Dao
Harmony and balance arises from the oppositional, complementary forces. (Recall yin and yang)
They should not be considered as literally doing nothing, but acting in a way that flows with and does not impede the natural processes of the Dao or Nature.
The Daodejing presents Confucianism as having artificially created “virtues” that actually undercut the natural spontaneous form of life that is healthy and most conducive to living according to the dao. We need to unlearn these moral categories and reorganize our lives to accord with Nature.
Living authentically according to Daoism is live according to the natural, unsocialized, spontaneous desires.
We find the Daodejing a distinction between desires that we accumulate through social and cultural influence and those that are simple and natural. What is recommended is that we aim to discard the acquired desires and satisfy the natural desires.
Engage in therapeutic skepticism by looking at the world from different perspectives. Realize that each perspective is limited and that we cannot have full access to reality. Embracing (1) and (2) leads to a more detached, “Heavenly” perspective. Always have this perspective available as a practical tool, while still carrying out your ordinary tasks with passion and focus. 
Metaphysics is the study of the ultimate nature of reality. Epistemology is the study of human beliefs, knowledge, and understanding.
Metaphyisical Realism states the Dao exists independently of our minds and constitutes ultimate reality, the deep patterns and structure of the world. CONCEPTUAL RELATIVISM:  All our beliefs and judgments arise out of our own conceptual outlook. Our beliefs are a reflection of our own perspectives. KNOWLEDGE SKEPTICISM:  We can never have full knowledge about the true nature of reality or Dao. For Zhuangzi (and Laozi of the Daodejing) human minds and language provide us only limited access to reality. But this doesn’t mean that we cannot have partial knowledge of reality.
Zhuangzi takes what is good or bad as relative to the individual or kind.
The exemplars engage in wu-wei (effortless actions) and seem to find a way to be absorbed by the activity and detached from it. They are often coming from ”low” class or seen by society as less dignified or worthy. (Some of the sages are ex-convicts, horribly disfigured, amputees.) 
KNOWING THAT: Knowledge about propositions such as “2+2=4” or “George Washington is the first president of the U.S.” KNOWING HOW: The ability to perform a skill like riding a bicycle, juggling, or playing the piano.
A central theme that runs through the Zhuangzi is the power of the mind to shape our views about goodness and value. The world doesn’t just simply impose ideas and values on us. Our perspectives and attitudes greatly shape how we view the world, others, and ourselves.
When she first died, don’t you think I was like everyone else? But then I considered the beginning, before she was alive. Not only before she has life, but before she had form. Not only before she had form, but before she had qi. In all the mixed-up bustle and confusion, something changed and there was qi. The qi changed and there was form. The form changed and she had life. Today there was another change and she died. It’s just like the round of the four seasons: spring, summer, fall, and winter. She was resting quietly, perfectly at home, and I followed her crying ’Wah-hah!’ It seemed like I hadn’t comprehended fate. So I stopped.
Embrace life and death as both a part of the cycles of nature. No ultimate distinction between life and death: they form a unity No proper or improper time for death
Rituals establish proper order and hierarchy. Given scarcity of resources this allows for social stability. Rituals reshape human motivations so that one doesn’t simply aim to satisfy one’s self-interested desires.
Xunzi believed we can override our desires through ‘deliberate effort’ (wei 偽)
Xunzi claims that distinctions are created by us, but are necessary for human life. (Contra Zhuangzi)
Human nature (or inborn dispositions) include fondness of profit and gain, envy and resentment of others, and desires for sensory pleasures. If these dispositions are followed, then disharmony, destruction, corruption, and vice will follow. Therefore: if one follows one’s inborn nature, badness will result. Therefore: the goodness and virtues we observe in human beings must be the result of external forces such as friends, teachers, rituals, and laws. Conclusion: human nature is bad. Goodness or virtue is the result of deliberate effort
Craft metaphors of Xunzi contrast with Mencius’s agricultural, sprout metaphors. Human nature does not have an internal principle of morality or ‘sprouts’. Human nature, while hard and resistant to change, can be made good through a long process of self-cultivation.
Moral goodness or virtue ought to be the organizing pursuit or end of our activities
Setting incremental goals for the sake of larger, overarching goals.
Because human nature is bad, Xunzi believes moral transformation is an outside-in process: morality is imposed on us from the outside through rule-enforcement, education, and broader culture.
Moral Self-Cultivation. The virtues of ritual and righteousness. Social Hierarchy. Danger of pursuing “profit”. Anyone could become a sage with the right effort and environment
While Han Feizi agrees with Xunzi that human nature is largely self-interested, he does not think (unliked Xunzi) that people in general can become virtuous. But this isn’t bad, we can still work with our given psychology.
Rewards and Punishments.
Confucianism relies on the virtuousness of rulers and people to generate social change. But moral development is exceedingly hard and very few achieve it: “the people are stupid, dull, corrupt, and lazy…”
Confucianism draws on tradition and past teachings, but societies and environments can change, thereby rendering past strategies ineffective. What worked in the past may no longer work.
The power of a ruler to enforce one’s will on someone because of their position. This power, Han Feizi argues, does not come from Virtue as Confucius believed. But the effectiveness of power depends on effective laws (fa).
Administrative methods refers to certain techniques and strategies for bureaucracies. One key idea is to limit the power of officials and maintain a clear and well-organized institutional systems. This would limit the possibility of favoritism (or personal vendettas) impeding fair processes.
Law must be, Easy to understand, Must be publicly observable, Consistent, Backed by substantial rewards for obedience and heavy punishments for violation 
Confucian Objection to Non-Moral Power: For power to lead to effective rule, the ruler must be good or benevolent. Han Feizi’s Response: It is not the virtue of the ruler that is important but the effectiveness of laws that maintains order.
Even if Han Feizi is fully successful in implementing effective laws and a strong political system, without the Confucian virtues, people would only be externally motivated. They wouldn’t be genuinely good and act out of real concern, respect, or generosity. Such a society would be morally impoverished and seems less than satisfying.
Empty and still: responds properly to new situations, Conceals his plans and intentions, Maximally non-interventionist
Objective standards help by: Providing a way of avoiding favoritism. (You might be the nephew of a high-ranking official but if you don’t do your job well, you can still lose your job.) Prevent corrupt practices like bribery or sucking up to superiors.
Care Ethics focuses on human relationships, interdependency, and the way that care and empathy plays a foundational role in morality.
Similarities: Takes ‘care’ (ren 仁) as central to the moral life. Takes a relational conception of the self. Human beings are deeply interconnected with others. Moral reasoning must always operate within a specific context, taking into account the particular details of the situation on a case-by-case basis. Rejects impartial or universal care: level of care should be based on the nature of the relationship Confucianism takes other values such as loyalty, ritual propriety, and hierarchy as also fundamentally important. Differences: Confucianism was developed within a patriarchal society, by men and directed toward men. It has historically supported oppressive social structures.
The moral principle, “all people are equal and have the same inalienable rights” can be applied narrowly and broadly. Slavery and the mistreatment of blacks in America was not the result of a faulty moral principle, but its improper application.
Chengyang Li aruges that if Confucians do endorse a form of care ethics, then it seems that we have an argument for why caring is not feminine attribute (since Confucius and Mengzi were not women). Moreover the emphasis on care cannot simply be the result of colonialism or foreign oppression as has been claimed by some scholars. Confucius did not develop his view because of foreign domination.
Defends a social-contract theory: justification of the state by appealing to the implicit agreement to uphold a social contract.
Locke believes that we can use the basic desires for esteem and reputation to cultivate the virtue of civility which combats anti-social passions such as resentment and envy.
Confucius claims that this is problematic because respect and civil treatment toward others is only instrumentally valued. You only care about how people think of you, rather than how good you really are.
One should learn for oneself rather than for good reputation or social status. Similarly, we should act respectfully for its own sake: not just because it’s a way to become well-liked.
Death is a part of life. But he wished it wasn't
Forrest running and gaining a following. Saving people in Vietnam and playing football.
COME BACK TO