What Century did confuscius live?
What is the difference between the hermeneutics of faith and hermeneutics of suspicion?
What is the name of the text that contains the ideas of confuscius?
What are the five central themes of confuscianism?
What is the concept of goodness (ren)?
What are the two elements of the "One Thread" in analects 4.15?
What is the concept of "learning" (xue)?
What is the concept of "Filial Piety" (xue)?
The concept of “ritual” (li).
The four functions of ritual practice.
The concept of Virtue (de).
The concept of wu-wei (effortless action), with a particular focus on how it pertains to proper governance for Confucius.
Confucius’s view on punishment (Virtue-Centered Governance).
The Virtue-Ruler Hypothesis
The distinction between Classical Liberalism and Political Perfectionism and how it relates to Confucius’s ideas about good governance.
Concept of Ethical Partiality
The three most prominent Western ethical theories and their core ideas.
Which ethical theory Mohism falls under.
The three central goods of Mohism.
Concept of impartial caring.
Concept of Anti-Fatalism.
Mozi’s basic attitude toward Confucian ritual.
Mozi’s account of the state of nature and what it’s supposed to demonstrate.
The difference between Hobbes and Mozi on the state of nature.
Mozi’s Caretaker Argument for impartiality.
Which century Mencius lived in.
The names of the four moral sprouts.
The names of the four moral virtues
What moral sprouts imply the virtues
The main point of the “child and the well” example from Mengzi 2A6
The distinction between psychological egoism and ethical egoism.
The Drowning Baby Thought Experiment as an objection to psychological egoism.
The Ox Mountain Passage (6A8) as an explanation of human badness.
Mencius’s criticism of Mozi as endorsing “two roots.” 
Mencius on the path toward becoming a Great Human or a Petty Human.
The concept of eudaimonia
The heart-mind (xin).
The concept of qi (vital energy).
What is the Yijing?
The concepts of Yin and Yang.
Which mythical figure is the Daodejing attributed to?
The concept of mysticism.
The political orientation of the Daodejing.
The Field Analogy.
The core features of Dao as ‘non-being’, ‘nameless’, ‘ineffable’, generator and sustainer of the world, emptiness.
The basic features of the Daoist de (power).
Opposites as a central theme of Daoism
The nature of wu-wei (effortless action) in Daoism.
Daoism’s criticisms of Confucianism (artificial construction of virtues).
Daodejing’s account of living authentically. (Nature, spontaneous desires.)
Distinction between natural and acquired desires.
Outline of Zhuangzian program for happiness.
Distinction between metaphysics and epistemology
The differences between: Metaphysical Realism, Conceptual Relativism, and Knowledge Skepticism.
Concept of Subject-Relativism of Goodness.
Core features of the skillstories (e.g. The Butcher, the Wheelwright).
Distinction between knowing that and knowing how.
Concept of Perspectivalism.
Zhuangzi’s view on death.
Three practical lessons from Zhuangzi.
Value of Ritual for Xunzi.
Deliberate Effort (wei) and desire.
Xunzi’s view on social distinctions.
Xunzi’s view on human nature.
Xunzi’s craft metaphors and their connection to his view on human nature
Xunzi and the priority of moral self-cultivation.
Concept of incrementalism.
The outside-in direction of moral development.
Similarities and differences between Mencius and Xunzi
How Han Feizi’s view is similar and dissimilar to Xunzi and Confucian thought more generally
The Two Handles of Governing.
Why Han Feizi was against the Confucian emphasis on virtue-cultivation
Why Han Feizi was against the Confucian emphasis on tradition.
The power of position (shi).
Administrative methods (shu).
Penal law (fa).
The Confucian objection to non-moral power and Han Feizi’s response
The final (major) objection to Han Feizi from a Confucian point of view. (Why even if Han Feizi’s vision was realized it would lead to an impoverished society.)
The qualities of an effective ruler
Why objective standards are important
The main concepts of care ethics.
The similarities and dissimilarities between Confucian ethics and care ethics
Chengyang Li’s distinction between moral principle and its application.
Chengyang Li’s main argument that care is not a “feminine” ethical characteristic.
The core idea behind John Locke’s social contract theory.
Why John Locke thought that the basic desires for esteem and good reputation was so important.
Confucius’s challenge to Locke.
The distinction between learning for oneself and learning for others.
What is Forrest Gump’s mother’s attitude toward dying?
What example(s) in the movie are there that illustrate the Daoist concept of wu-wei (effortless action)?
How are the concept of emptiness of self and openness to experience illustrated in Forrest Gump?